# Home-Credit-Indonesias-Project
Financial services are currently facing significant challenges in assessing whether clients who apply for loans can repay their loans or not. Proven in the information broadcast by the Folkative account on Instagram social media, that there are 2.3 million DKI Jakarta residents in debt up to 10.35 trillion rupiah. Also reported on CNN Indonesia with the same news twice. This is proof that financial services are currently facing challenges to minimize losses due to errors in assessing client payment capabilities. This research aims to provide a solution for financial services, especially Home Credit Indonesia, in taking preventive measures to avoid losses due to inappropriate lending to clients, by analyzing the prediction of client repayment ability using the Random Forest Classifier method. The prediction analysis starts with data pre-processing to understand and clean the 307,511 data with 122 variables. Furthermore, the dataset will be processed in the feature selection stage, which will obtain variables with correlation values to target variables that will only be processed in the next stage, namely data splitting and model building using Random Forest Classifier. The test results show that the highest accuracy value is obtained at a sampling value variation of N = 100K and a ratio of training data and test data of 90%: 10%. The K-Fold Cross Validation test results show that the Random Forest Classifier model has an accuracy value of 95.76%, precision of 95.82%, recall of 95.79%, specificity of 94.55%, and f-measure of 95.74%. The final result of the research is that the Random Forest Classifier model can classify clients who will apply for a loan, whether the client belongs to the class of problematic clients or not.
